Software Requirement Specification(SRS)

                                                FOR ONLINE PHOTOGRAPHER BOOKING



1.Introduction
------------------------------------------

1.1 Purpose

    The purpose of this document is to present a detailed description of the ONLINE PHOTOGRAPHER BOOKING. 
    It will explain the purpose and features of the system , the interfaces of the system, what the system 
    will do , the constraints under which it must operate and how the system will react to the external
    stimuli. The document is intended for both the customers and developers of the system. photographer 
    booking web application is used to provide complete solutions for the photographers as well as
    customers through single get way using internet.


1.2 Scope

    Booking photography is a project which will enable customers or clients to book for professional 
    photographer via online.Book the best photographer according to needs on just one click.  
    


1.3 Overview:

     This system will provide an easy solution for customer's  to book photographer 
     on single click instead of physically approaching the respective office.


1.4  Additional Information:
    
      The system work on internet server, so it will be operated by any end user for the booking 
      purpose with secure platform.This system protects the integrity of photographers and 
      customers, provides easy bookings,offers, cancellation.


1.5  Gereral Description:
     
     The online photographer booking application helps customer to pick the photographer by surfing 
     random pics clicked by photographer according to their choice of photoshoot.



2. Specific Requirements:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
2.1 Functional Requirement:
    
     This section provides requirement overview of the system. Various functional 
     modules that can be implemented by the system will be-
  

3. Description:

    In our website user can view home, about us , information, location, contact, promotion, booking,
    price,login and signup page.customers or clients to book for professional photographer via online.
    As a guest, user can only view the systems and feedback us.For the user who sign up as a member ,
    after login, they able to view home,about us, information, location , contact, promotion , bookings , 
    price , payment, profile update and prices in details.Only members can book our photographer and make payment via online. 
    For booking, the details required are the date,type of photoshoot, location, payment.
    For users who are not a member and would like to book a photographer must signup and become a member. 
    it is easy register and requirements are Full Name, Username, Address, Phone Number, Email, etc. 
    Billing information iThe term client/server refers primarily to an architecture or logical division of responsibilities, 
    the client is the application (also known as the front-end), and the server is the RDBMS (also known as the back-end).
    A client/server system is a distributed system in which,Some sites are client sites and others are server sites.
    All the data resides at the server sites.
    All applications execute at the client sites.s required of making payment via transfer from their account to our account. 
    Then customer will get booking confirmation mail , and one copy will be saved for the system database to calculate
     monthly bookings.
    

4. Technical Issues:
		
    This system will work on client-Server architecture. It will require an internet server.
    The system should support some commonly used browser such as Chrome etc.
    Interface Requirement Various interfaces for the product could be 
        1.Login Page, 
        2.Registration form
    
    The customers may select the different options:

        1.Login page
        2.Registration Form
        3.category
        4.Booking cart
        5.Account Settings
        6.Payment Gateways

5. Hardware Interface:

     The System must run over the internet,
        	All the hardware shall require to connect to internet will be hardware interface for the system.
		e.g. modem,  WAN, LAN
		Specialized Server Infrastructure Hardware
        	The system should use distrubuted servers i.e cloud for managing large amount of data so as to 
                make it appear as single unit for end-user.
        	The system should have proper clusters for backup.


6. Software Interface:
		
                The system is on server so it requires the any scripting language like JSP or  PHP or ASP, ETC.
        	The system should be able to exchange data using XML, JASON or any advance technology.
		The system require DataBase also for the store the any transaction of the system like MySql or 
                oracle, or SQL server etc.
		System also require DNS (Domain Name space) for the naming on the internet.
		http://www.transflower.in
		http://www.amazon.in
        	At the end-user need web browser for interact with the system.
    
7.Performance Requirement:

		There is no  performance requirement in this system, because the server request  and respone to 
                client is totally based on internet connection of enduser.

8.Design Constrains:

		This system should be developed using  Standard Web Page Development Tool , which conforms GUI standards such like HTML, XML, JSON,etc.
        	The system should support various RDMS and Cloud Technologies.



9.Non-Functional Requirements

	1.Security:

	  	SSL
		The System use SSL (Secure Socket Layer) in all trancations that include any confidential customer information.
		The system must automcatically log out all customers after a period of inactivity.
		The system should not leave any cookies on the customer's computer containing users's password.
		The system's back-end servers shall  only be accessible to authenticated administrators.
		Sensitive data will be encrypted  before being sent onver insecure connections like internet.
        	The proper firewalls should be developed to avoid intrusions from the internal or external sources.


	2.Reliability:

		The system provides storage of all databases on redundant computers with  automatic switchover. 
		The main pillar of reliability of the system  is the backup of the database 
		which is conitinously maintained and update to reflect  the most recenet changes.


	3: Availability:

		The system should be available at all times.meaning the user can access it using web browser, 
       	 	only restricted by the down time of the server on which the system runs.
        	In case of a of a hardware failure or database corruption, a replacement page will be shown. 
		uptime : It mean 24 * 7 availability
	


	4: Maintainability:

		A commercial database is used for maintaining the databae and application server takes care of the site. 
		The maintainability can be done efficiently.

	5.Portability:

		The application is HTML and scripting language based (Javascript). So the end user part is fully 
                portable and any system using any web browser should be able to use the features of the system,
                including any hardware platform that is available or will be available in the futuer. 
		An end-user  is used this system on an OS;either it is Windows or Linux.
		The System shall run on PC, Laptops and PDA.etc.
		The  technology should be transferable to different environments easily.

	6.Accessibility:

        	Only registered users should be allowed to process the orders after authentications.
        	Only GUI access of the system should be permited to end users.

	7.Policies:

       		The system should adhere to all the legal formalities of the particular countries.
       		The system should maintain security related to sensitive data.

	8.Efficiency:

		The system should provide good throughput and response to multiple users without burdening 
                the system by using appropriate number of servers.

	9.Safety:

      		Software should not harm ethical and environmental conditions of the end users machine.

	10.Modulariy:
      		The system should have user friendly interface. 
      		It should be easily updated,modified and reused. 




10.operational Scenario:
        
      1.Customer Interaction
      
      customer will choose the photographer according to the type of photoshoot he/she wants to do.
       and those photographers will display random photographs taken by them.

      after seeing those photographs, the customer will choose the photographer he/she wants.
      The payment will be made with credit card or debit card.
      If customer wants to cancel the booking then they can easily cancel it.
    
      2.Shopper Interaction:
	
      3.Staff Interaction:
	
      4.BOD (Board Of Directors)
	
11.Preliminary Schedule: :

                1.Login
		2.Manage customer database Browse category
                3.add or remove booking cart
                4.Manage customer database
                5.manage photography categories
                6.packages
                7.cancellation policies
                8.payment gateway integration
                9.Custome inquiry
                10.Alert and push notifications.
       

 
